README.md, before:

# virustotal2

A portable, Pythonic and complete implementation of the [Virustotal](https://www.virustotal.com/) [Public API](https://www.virustotal.com/en/documentation/public-api/).  It would also implement the Private API if VT would like to give me access... :)

This module is heavily inspired by, and borrows some code from, the [virustotal](https://github.com/Gawen/virustotal) module.  In particular, it uses the same rate limiting logic and deals with report updating in the same way.  I ended up re-writing the module from scratch, however, and in the process made some new choices that broke backwards compatibility.  Thus, we have virustotal2.

## Prerequisites

## Example

    import virustotal2
    import urllib2
    import csv

    vt = virustotal2.VirusTotal2("b2510b80fec019d8b6896a8e575022690efecdfa858d1077c75b37dae5f4621e")

    mdl_content = urllib2.urlopen("http://www.malwaredomainlist.com/updatescsv.php")
    mdl_csv = csv.reader(mdl_content)

    for line in mdl_csv:
        ip=line[2].split("/")[0]
        try:
            ip_report = vt.retrieve(ip)   #get the VT IP report for this IP
        except:
            print "API error: on ip " + ip

        total_pos = sum([u["positives"] for u in ip_report.detected_urls])
        total_scan = sum([u["total"] for u in ip_report.detected_urls])
        count = len(ip_report.detected_urls)

        print str(count)+" URLs hosted on "+ip+" are called malicious by (on average) " + \
              str(int(total_pos/count)) + " / " + str(int(total_scan/count)) + " scanners"




## How To Use
### Install
    pip install virustotal2

### Import
    import virustotal2

### Instantiate
    vt2=virustotal2.VirusTotal2(API_KEY)

Optionally, you can pass limit_per_min, which is the number of queries you can perform per minute.  4 is the default.

### Retrieve a report
Use the method retrieve() to get an existing report from VirusTotal.  This method's first argument can be:

- an MD5, SHA1 or SHA256 of a file or a list of up to 4 hashes
- a path to a file or list of paths to files
- a URL or a list of up to 4 URLs
- an IP address
- a domain name

retrieve() will attempt to auto-detect what you're giving it.  If you want to be explicit, you can use the thing_type parameter with the values:

- ip
- domain
- hash
- file
- url

Finally, if you want raw JSON back, as opposed to a VirusTotal2Report object, you can pass in raw=True.

If you pass retrieve() a list of items, you will get a list of reports back in the same order.


### Scan a new file
Use the scan() method to scan a new URL or file.  This method's first argument can be:

- a path to a file
- a url or list of up to 4 URLs
- a hash or a list of up to 25 hashes (for re-scanning only!)

scan() will attempt to auto-detect what you're giving it.  If you want to be explicit, you can use the type parameter with the values:

- file
- url

If you want raw JSON back, as opposed to a VirusTotal2Report object, you can pass in raw = True.

Finally, if you want force a reanalysis of the resource you are passing in, set rescan = True.  Note that the VirusTotal API currently does not allow URLs to be reanalyzed.

If you pass scan() a list of items, you will get a list of reports back in the same order.  In order to preserve that semantic, if you pass in a list of files, some of which are invalid, you will get a list of reports and None back.

### Using a Report
The retrieve() and scan() methods return VirusTotal2Report objects.  These objects have some useful methods and also act as pass-thrus to the underlying JSON.

#### wait()
This method blocks until the file or URL you've submitted for scanning is finished scanning.  THIS CAN TAKE A VERY LONG TIME.

#### rescan()
requests virustotal to rescan the sample that created the current report.  This is only valid for file or hash reports.  This method modifies the current report rather than returning a new report object, so the following is normal:

    >>> import virustotal2
    >>> vt = virustotal2.VirusTotal2(API_KEY)
    >>> report = vt.get("www.evilsite.com/evil.exe")
    >>> report.status()
    analyzing
    >>> report.wait()
    >>> report.status()
    ok
    >>> report.rescan()
    >>> report.status()
    analyzing
    >>> report.wait()
    >>> report.status()
    ok

#### update()
checks to see if virustotal has completed it's analysis yet and if so it pull down the new JSON.

## References
[Virustotal Public API](https://www.virustotal.com/en/documentation/public-api/)

Commit message:

Refactor scan/retrieve and add base64
Support working directly with base64-encoded binaries. This will
*hopefully* help evade anti-virus, as the decoded version never hits
disk.

README.md, after:

# virustotal2

A portable, Pythonic and complete implementation of the [Virustotal](https://www.virustotal.com/) [Public API](https://www.virustotal.com/en/documentation/public-api/).  It would also implement the Private API if VT would like to give me access... :)

This module is heavily inspired by, and borrows some code from, the [virustotal](https://github.com/Gawen/virustotal) module.  In particular, it uses the same rate limiting logic and deals with report updating in the same way.  I ended up re-writing the module from scratch, however, and in the process made some new choices that broke backwards compatibility.  Thus, we have virustotal2.

## Prerequisites

## Example

    import virustotal2
    import urllib2
    import csv

    vt = virustotal2.VirusTotal2("b2510b80fec019d8b6896a8e575022690efecdfa858d1077c75b37dae5f4621e")

    mdl_content = urllib2.urlopen("http://www.malwaredomainlist.com/updatescsv.php")
    mdl_csv = csv.reader(mdl_content)

    for line in mdl_csv:
        ip=line[2].split("/")[0]
        try:
            ip_report = vt.retrieve(ip)   #get the VT IP report for this IP
        except:
            print "API error: on ip " + ip

        total_pos = sum([u["positives"] for u in ip_report.detected_urls])
        total_scan = sum([u["total"] for u in ip_report.detected_urls])
        count = len(ip_report.detected_urls)

        print str(count)+" URLs hosted on "+ip+" are called malicious by (on average) " + \
              str(int(total_pos/count)) + " / " + str(int(total_scan/count)) + " scanners"




## How To Use
### Install
    pip install virustotal2

### Import
    import virustotal2

### Instantiate
    vt2=virustotal2.VirusTotal2(API_KEY)

Optionally, you can pass limit_per_min, which is the number of queries you can perform per minute.  4 is the default.

### Retrieve a report
Use the method retrieve() to get an existing report from VirusTotal.  This method's first argument can be:

- an MD5, SHA1 or SHA256 of a file or a list of up to 4 hashes
- a path to a file or list of paths to files
- a base64-encoded version of a file or list of paths to files (filename must end in .base64!)
- a URL or a list of up to 4 URLs
- an IP address
- a domain name

retrieve() will attempt to auto-detect what you're giving it.  If you want to be explicit, you can use the thing_type parameter with the values:

- ip
- domain
- hash
- file
- base64
- url

Finally, if you want raw JSON back, as opposed to a VirusTotal2Report object, you can pass in raw=True.

If you pass retrieve() a list of items, you will get a list of reports back in the same order.


### Scan a new file
Use the scan() method to scan a new URL or file.  This method's first argument can be:

- a path to a file
- a url or list of up to 4 URLs
- a hash or a list of up to 25 hashes (for re-scanning only!)

scan() will attempt to auto-detect what you're giving it.  If you want to be explicit, you can use the type parameter with the values:

- file
- base64
- url

If you want raw JSON back, as opposed to a VirusTotal2Report object, you can pass in raw = True.

Finally, if you want force a reanalysis of the resource you are passing in, set rescan = True.  Note that the VirusTotal API currently does not allow URLs to be reanalyzed.

If you pass scan() a list of items, you will get a list of reports back in the same order.  In order to preserve that semantic, if you pass in a list of files, some of which are invalid, you will get a list of reports and None back.

### Using a Report
The retrieve() and scan() methods return VirusTotal2Report objects.  These objects have some useful methods and also act as pass-thrus to the underlying JSON.

#### wait()
This method blocks until the file or URL you've submitted for scanning is finished scanning.  THIS CAN TAKE A VERY LONG TIME.

#### rescan()
requests virustotal to rescan the sample that created the current report.  This is only valid for file or hash reports.  This method modifies the current report rather than returning a new report object, so the following is normal:

    >>> import virustotal2
    >>> vt = virustotal2.VirusTotal2(API_KEY)
    >>> report = vt.get("www.evilsite.com/evil.exe")
    >>> report.status()
    analyzing
    >>> report.wait()
    >>> report.status()
    ok
    >>> report.rescan()
    >>> report.status()
    analyzing
    >>> report.wait()
    >>> report.status()
    ok

#### update()
checks to see if virustotal has completed it's analysis yet and if so it pull down the new JSON.

## References
[Virustotal Public API](https://www.virustotal.com/en/documentation/public-api/)
